Dorme, René
France

   René Pierre Marie Dorme was born January 30, 1894, in Abaucourt-les-Soupeville, Meuse, the son of the stationmaster. After school Dorme became a law clerk until, in 1913, he entered military service with an artillery regiment based in North Africa, where he was serving when the war began.
  Dorme immediately transferred to the air service and began active duty at Saint Cyr 12 January 1915. He was sent to Pau as a student pilot on 13 February, and received his Pilot's Brevet on May 6, 1915. On 15 June he was assigned to C94 CRP as a pilot in two-seaters. Severely injured in a night-flying accident in January 1916, he returned to duty in March. Dorme gained his first probable victory in April.
  On June 25, 1916 Dorme transferred to Escadrille N.3 -Les Cigognes. He used to paint a Cross of Lorraine along with "Père Dorme" on the side of his mount. Dorme was severely wounded in combat on 20 December, but returned to the Front on 1 March 1917. A brilliant pursuit pilot, he added six more victories to bring his score to 23 confirmed out of more than 50 claimed victories, having ammassed 623 hours combat flying hours and 120 combats.
  On May 25, 1917 evening, Dorme took off on a frontline patrol with Cap Deullin from who he became separated. Deullin made it back safely, but Dorme died in the subsequent combat. The remaining is a good exemple of fog of war. Evidence suggests the frenchmen were outnumbered while attacking German scouts E of Reims. Frenchwise, Dorme was the only Spad lost on this area this day, and infantrymen at Fort de la Pompelle declared to have seen a Spad diving full speed to the ground in occupied territory, which then crashed after they lost sight of it. Germanwise, indication was given after the war regarding the location of a Spad wreckage at Mount Aigu (about 8km above the lines). At the end of the day, three German fighters claimed a Spad over a 15km wide area: on one hand, von Schleich and von Breiten-Landenberg of Jasta 21 and on the other hand, Kroll of Jasta 9. Both Jasta belonged to a different army and all three pilots recieved credit. Regarding claim locations, von Breiten-Landenberg made the one that fits the most, as he located his victory over the ruined village of Nauroy, which was just 3km S of the wreckage. However, given to the fact that there were three claims for one wreckage, then it seems unlikely that Dorme was the victim of only one enemy fighter. It has also been suggested that the french Ace's Spad could have suffered engine failure in a dive and that would have made the unfortunate pilot to plunge to his death.
  René Dorme was 23.
	
