Garros, Roland
France

   Eugène Adrian Roland Georges Garros was born 6 October 1888 at Saint-Denis (Isle de la Réunion). He had pneumonia while very young, but overcame his frail constitution to become a noted athlete, first in football, then as the French cycling champion in 1906. He then took up tennis, and one of the world's great events still bears his name today. He was a virtuoso pianist, and was planning a concert career, when he attended an air show at Rheims in 1909. His vision turned to the sky. 
  He earned his Brevet 19 July 1910 flying a Demoiselle, and quickly won fame in the pre-war era, stunt flying and setting numerous records during 1911-12. In 1913 he made the first nonstop flight across the Mediterranean. He was also the demonstration pilot for Morane-Saulnier Aircraft in the United States and, oddly enough, in Germany. Garros was teaching military aviation in Germany when war broke out in August 1914. He smuggled his way back to France - via a night flight to Switzerland - and signed up with l'Armee de l'Air, serving with MS23.
  Garros' initial wartime achievement - a notable one - was his development of a forward firing machine gun. On a visit to Paris, Garros voiced his frustration with his inability to fight the Boche to Raymond Saulnier. Saulnier had designed a mechanical device which would allow a machine gun to do what Garros wanted. The major problem was not with his idea, but with the design of the gun used. The Hotchkiss rate of fire was erratic, and the ammunition in use caused the gun to frequently hang-fire. Saulnier invented a steel deflector unit to be fitted on the propeller, directly in the gun's line of flre. It was his contention that only a very small percentage of bullets would hit the protective shield, not enough to cause problems for the pilot. Garros then mounted a Hotchkiss on his Morane-Saulnier.
  Garros took off for what was officially a bomb strike on a railroad yard on April 1, 1915. Enroute he spotted a German two-seater. Climbing up under the aircraft, he opened fire. The German observer used a carbine, to return fire, but failed to do any damage. While firing his final tray Garros saw the two-seater burst into flames, slowly spiral down, then smash into the ground. The first 'pilote de chasse' was born. As a result of this victory and two more quick kills, he became a hero of France; his plane the most feared in the French air service.
   However, his success was short-lived because on 18th April, a rifleman defending Courtrai railway station shot through the petrol pipe of the aircraft that Garros was flying. Garros was forced to land behind the German front-line and before he could set-fire to his machine he and it were captured by the Germans. After examining it Anthony Fokker's team designed an improved system known as the interrupter gear. Soon the tables were reversed with Fokker's planes shooting down every plane they met, leading to what became known as the Fokker Scourge.
  After three years internment in a German PoW camp, and several attempts, Garros managed his escape, disguised as a German soldier, on February 14 1918. After rehabilitation and retraining, he requested front-line duty and was assigned to Spa 103 - les Cigognes - on 20 August, and transferred to Spa 26 three days later. Garros was in combat on 2 October, and seemed to have lost none of his aggressiveness or ability. He and his wingmate attacked three Fokker DVIIs, Garros shooting one down between Ste Marie-à-Py and Somme-Py, and claiming another probable. On the 5th of October, in SPAD XIII 15.409, he was last seen in action with seven enemy fighters south-west of Vouziers. 
  Roland Garros, the first fighter pilot, had flown his last flight. 