Guynemer, Georges
France

   Georges Marie Ludovic Jules Guynemer was born in Paris on Christmas eve 1894 the son of a retired army officer from an established military family. A sickly child, young Georges was at first pampered and educated at home by his mother and two sisters, before schooling to the Lycee d' Compiegne. He did not do well at Compiegne; though recognised as intelligent he was inattentive and disorganised in his work, disruptive in his behaviour and, perhaps suprisingly in view of his slight build, apt to get into fights.
  As a teenager Guynemer was practiced in the art of roller-skating, then all the rage in Paris, and excelled at fencing and rifle shooting. Perhaps these three interests, combining balance and quick reflexes with a good eye, played some part in later developements. A common interest in all things mechanical led to friendship with Jean Krebs, the son of a director of the Panhard Motor Company. Guynemer learned much about the workings of the internal combusion engine from his friend, knowledge which would later stand him in good stead, and the pair developed a passion for the new science of aviation. Following college graduation in 1912 he commenced studies for admission to l'Ecole Polytechnique. However, dogged by continued ill health he was compelled to withdraw in the summer of 1914 and retired to the family villa in Biarritz.
  Following the outbreak of war Guynemer was turned down by the air service no less than five times due to his poor health. Making his own way to Pau he secured an interview and was accepted 23 November 1914 for training as a mechanic. There followed a successful application for flying training and Guynemer made his first hop at the controls of a Bleriot 'Pingouin' on January 26th 1915. He was awarded his Brevet on 26 April 1915.
  On 8th June 1915 he joined his first and only operational unit, Escadrille MS3 at Vauciennes. The Morane 'L' allocated to Guynemer had previously been flown by Charles Bonnard and had been named by him 'Vieux Charles'. Guynemer retained the name and carried it on most of the aircraft he subsequently flew.
  In September Guynemer's career very nearly came to an abrupt end when he was brought down in NoMansLand and rescued by French troops. He would be shot down a total of seven times. On 29th September and 10th October he undertook so called 'special' missions, landing behind enemy lines with French agents. Landing on rough ground with a spy and taking off again in a flimsy Morane L was a risky business.
  For Guynemer December 1915 was an eventful month. Escadrille MS3 was renamed N3 on the 5th following re-equipment with the single seat Nieuport 10, with it's wing-mounted Lewis a far more effectivly armed aeroplane than the Morane. December 24th, his 21st birthday, brought the award of the Legion d'Honneur and a citation describing him as 'a pilot of great gallantry.'
   By March 1916, Georges was one of France's top aces; he had eight victories; he was flying the latest scout, a Nieuport 17, equipped with a synchronized machine gun and a 120 HP Le Rhône. On the 12th, the new aircraft almost did him in. He was chasing a pair of two-seaters; attacking the second, his powerful Nieuport overshot it. The German fired and Guynemer took two bullets in his left arm and another cut his face. Streaming blood and flying with one hand, he dived 1,000 feet, pulling out just above the ground. He landed roughly, practically destroying his airplane, but with no further injuries. Returning to the front on April 26th, his wounds barely healed, he was clearly still suffering from nervous exhaustion and was sent home on leave.
  Although appreciating very early on that flying with a wing-man would assist in his survival Guynemer was one of the great virtuoso soloists of the first air war, prefering to stalk his enemy and either ambush him or best him in single combat. On June 6th 1917 high above Lierval Guynemer joined battle with Ernst Udet. By Udet's own account, Guynemer was flying rings around him when his Albatros suffered a double gun stoppage. Observing Udet hammering his guns with clenched fist, Guynemer broke off the action with a wave of the hand and left his adversary to fight another day.
  Guynemer was now living in the air. By August, he was suffering, in part from tuberculosis but also from exhaustion and nervous depression, or cafard, as the French called it. At 08:25 hrs September 11th 1917 Guynemer took off with Lieutenant Bozon-Verduraz as his number two. As Guynemer manoevered for an attacking possition on a two seater over Poelcapelle eight German scouts came into view. The French pair continued to dive on the two-seater, the Alabatros scouts climbing rapidly to meet them. Believing that his flight leader had also seen the approaching danger Bozon-Verduraz dove away confident that Guynemer would follow. One account has it that he did in fact break off the chase, but met his demise when he ran into and attacked a large formation of bombers from KG5. 
  As with so many of the aces of the Great War his final combat is shrouded in mystery. A body identified as Guynemer's was briefly in the care of the German 413th Infantry Regiment, where a terse medical report mentions that a finger of the left hand was shot away and gives a single bullet to the head as cause of death, but the next day the area was subjected to an artillery bombardment that would last an incredible fifteen days and all traces of Guynemer and his aircraft were obliterated by the British guns.
  Or perhaps, as generations of French schoolchildren believed, 'Capitaine Guynemer flew so high he could not come down again.' 
  In the crypt of the Pantheon in Paris an inscribed marble plaque bearing the name of Georges Guynemer and the insignia of the Legion d'Honneur reads:

'Fallen in the field of honour on September 11th 1917 - a legendary hero, fallen in glory from the sky after three years of fierce struggle. He will remain the purest symbol of the qualities of his race, indomitable tenacity, ferocious energy, sublime courage; animated by the most resolute faith in victory he bequeaths to the French soldier an imperishable memory which will exalt the spirit of sacrifice'