Nungesser, Charles
France

   Charles Eugene Jules Marie Nungesser was born March 15, 1892, in Paris and raised near Valenciennes. As a youth he was a gifted athlete, and excelled in competitive sports, particularly boxing. After attending l'Ecole des Arts et Metiers, he suddenly abandoned his studies and went to South America, where during the next several years, he raced cars and learned to fly.
  When war broke out and Nungesser returned to France where he joined the Second Hussars. While on patrol one day, Nungesser and several fellow soldiers, stopped a German staff car, shot the occupants, and drove back at high speed to safety. His superiors were so impressed, they gave him the car and the Medaille Militaire. 
  On January 22 1915 he transferred to the Service Aeronautique, receiving his Pilot's Brevet on March 17 1915. Assigned to Escadrille VB.106 on April 8, flying Voisins, Nungesser shot down his first plane, an Albatros, on 31 July. As he had left his field without permission, he was awarded the Croix de Guerre and given eight days house arrest. Apparently the women of Nancy also expressed their gratitude to him. 
  Nungesser won a transfer to Esc N.65 in November. The new fighter pilot reported to his old base at Nancy. Nungesser revelled in his own brand of morbid humour and the Bébé was adorned with all the black symbolism of violent death. A crude death's-head first appeared on his Voisin in early 1915 and the skull and cross-bones, a coffin and candlesticks all contained in a black heart, adorned all his subsequent aircraft.
  In January 1916, Nungesser broke both legs, pierced the roof of his mouth with the planes control stick, and dislocated his jaw in a serious flying accident. Within two months he was flying again, hobbling to his aircraft on crutches.  By the end of March he was back with N 65 and in the first week of April he made up for lost time over Verdun shooting down several enemy aircraft and balloons. The Germans soon knew the ace was back and on May 12th a single Albatros dropped a message challenging Nungesser to a single combat over Douai. When the Frenchman got there six enemy fighters were waiting. The grimly marked Nieuport shot down two of them in flames and the rest of the pack scattered.    Nungesser had an incredible career as a pilot.  He was wounded 17 times, and is said to have spent more time in hospitals than with his squadron.  Nungesser was so crippled by his injuries that his faithful mechanic, Soldat Pochon, had to carry him to and from his aircraft. After his patrol, he would carry him back to the hospital. Nungesser's 43 victories came as the result of steely will and determination to return to the air, no matter how injured. 
  Nungesser liked fast women and fast cars.In December returning to Paris at night in one of the powerful touring cars in which he revelled, he struck a patch of ice at speed and the car overturned. Nungesser was thrown clear but again seriously injured. His faithful mechanic Pochon lay dead in the wreckage. Nungesser was once again in the hospital and for the rest of the war his returns to the front were interrupted by frequent spells of hospitalization.
  He was forced to retire from combat flying in August 1918 and spent the remainder of the war, appropriately enough, in hospitals or flying as an instructor. 
Peace left him dissatisfied after the excitement of wartime, and he thrilled thousands with his aerial feats of showmanship.
  Nungesser's death remains a mystery. On May 8, 1927, Nungesser and old friend Francois Coli left LeBourget Field near Paris on an historic nonstop flight to New York in a biplane called l'Oiseau Blanc. They were never seen again.
