
  CATGEN.EXE

<< unfinished >>

CATGEN is a little program to generate a catalogue
of BGL library object names and their 128 bit ID numbers.

The purpose of this catalogue is to enable SCASM 2.32 or
later to deal direct with the lib objects description string
so the scenery designer does not need to know and type in
the long and cryptic object ID number.

SCASM uses the generated catalogue as an conversion table.
You can include nearly all BGL library files from your
system.

Generating a catalogue:
 * Select "New Cat" and set a new filename and path
   you also can select the index table size
 * Select "OpenLib" to load a BGL library file
   Select "Catalogue" to add the objects to the cat. <???>
   repeat the last 2 steps for every lib you want to add
   to the catalogue.

The file is automatically saved when you exit the program
or load/create a new catalogue file.
If the object's name is already in the catalogue it is not
added, even if the ID is different!
The number of entries is not limited but the size of the
index table is. As a result the object searcing may slow
down when the number of entries is growing much larger
than index table size.

< --- >

Of course extensive use of this feature will increase
the compile time. This is the reason why the catalogue
is NOT organised as a simple list. A special methode
(hshing) is used to minimise the number of file acess
per search.
Why I am telling you this? Verry simple. The head of the
file is a look-up table and you can change it's size.
But you have to be very carfully with this.
The size of this table MUST be a prime number.
The size of this table should be larger than the expected
number of catalogue entries but its size is not really
critical. But you should watch the numbers of collisions
and the length of the longest collision chain. The later
is the maximum (plus 1) number of tries to find an
given object name (worst case). This value should be
very much smaller than the total amount of catalogue
entries.

Known problems/limitations:
* The number of objects the DIR function can display
  correctly is limited to abt. 9000.
* Compressed LibFiles cannot be handled.

Manfred Moldenhauer
e-mail: M_Moldenhauer@compuserve.com

